Update style guide (#8677)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: contributing/content-style-guide.md

# Content style guide

This guide defines standards for writing documentation on docs.getdbt.com. Follow these rules to ensure clarity, consistency, and accessibility.

For questions not covered here, refer to the [Microsoft Writing Style Guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/welcome/) and the [Chicago Manual of Style](https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/home.html).

## Quick reference

| Category | Rule |
|----------|------|
| Voice | Use active voice |
| Tense | Use present tense |
| Person | Use second person ("you") |
| Capitalization | Use sentence case for titles and headings |
| Lists | Use parallel structure; no ending punctuation unless complete sentences |
| Code | Use backticks for inline code, code blocks for multi-line |
| Links | Use relative paths; descriptive link text |

> 

Reviewer: Hiya @matthewshaver 

Would it be worthwhile adapters / adapter names here? I noticed in the docs, that there can be inconsistency as in some are backticked and some aren't

Author: I don't think they should be, but see comment [here](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8677/changes#r2928583595) for more

- [Markdown syntax](#markdown-syntax)
- [Text formatting](#text-formatting)
- [UI elements](#ui-elements)
- [Capitalization](#capitalization)
- [Titles and headings](#titles-and-headings)
- [Lists](#lists)
- [Tables](#tables)
- [Cards](#cards)
- [Code formatting](#code-formatting)
- [Links](#links)
- [Images](#images)
- [Word choice and terminology](#word-choice-and-terminology)
- [Callouts](#callouts)

---

## Naming conventions and branding

### dbt products

Always use these exact names (case-sensitive):

| Product | Usage | Notes |
|---------|-------|-------|
| dbt Labs | The company | Always lowercase "dbt", capital "L" |
| dbt | Generic reference | Use when content applies to all dbt offerings |
| dbt Core | Versions ≤1.x | Lowercase "dbt", capital "C" |
| dbt Fusion engine | Versions ≥2.x | Can shorten to "Fusion" in docs |
| dbt | Cloud-based offering | Formerly "dbt Cloud"; use "managed dbt" or "dbt platform" for clarity |

Plan tiers (capitalize): Developer, Starter, Enterprise, Enterprise+

### dbt features

**Capitalize these product names:**
- Studio IDE
- Canvas
- Insights
- Catalog
- dbt Mesh
- Orchestrator
- Semantic Layer

> - Copilot

Reviewer: Hiya @matthewshaver 

Should MCP and Agents (dbt MCP and dbt Agents on the side bar), be included?

Author: Good question. I'm not sure if we're treating those as product names. I'll check with PMM but maybe @mirnawong1 knows

Reviewer: Following this [thread](https://dbt-labs.slack.com/archives/C01DP29FJTY/p1773365978870969), I think they may need to be included. Will liaise with team

**Do not capitalize these features:**
- models

> - environments

Reviewer 2: dbt platform might be a good one to add here

Author: Good call out!

- configs
- settings
- column-level lineage

### Third-party brands

> Use official branding. Update when vendors rebrand.

Reviewer: Hiya @matthewshaver 

Is it possible to include an example like the above (just thinking ahead for new joiners - it may be helpful).
I think it might also be a good idea to briefly explain why (as the previous version did)

Author: Moved the examples to the table below! Can split the diffrence on the language for sure

| ❌ Avoid | ✅ Use |
|----------|--------|
| Microsoft Azure Active Directory | Microsoft Entra ID |
| VScode | VS Code |
| Visual Studio Code | VS Code (acceptable shorthand) |

### Acronyms and initialisms

> Use all caps unless another standard exists:

Reviewer 3: we should clarify 'except in code blocks'

Author: Good call out! I'll add language here and lean on your example below

| ❌ Avoid | ✅ Use |
|----------|--------|
| yaml | YAML |
| sql | SQL |
| json | JSON |
| DBT | dbt |

> **Exception:** File extensions use lowercase (`.sql`, `.yml`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Exception:** File extensions use lowercase (`.sql`, `.yml`) or inside code blocks (```yaml)
```

---

## File and folder structure

### File naming rules

1. Use lowercase with hyphens (`kebab-case`)

> 2. Keep names short—they become part of the URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Keep names short—they appear in the URL
```

> 2. Keep names short—they appear in the URL

Author: ```suggestion
2. Keep names short. They appear in the URL
```

3. Be descriptive but concise

> 4. Avoid redundant words

Reviewer: Hiya @matthewshaver 

(thinking of new writers), would it be worthwhile adding an example for redundant words in parentheses?

Author: Great idea, but I'm struggling to come up with a good example that would appear in the filenam. Any suggestions @nataliefiann ?

| ❌ Avoid | ✅ Use |
|----------|--------|
| `/docs/deploy/how-we-think-about-architecture` | `/docs/cloud/about-cloud/architecture` |
| `getting-started-with-dbt-setup.md` | `dbt-setup.md` |

### Sidebar configuration

- Edit `sidebar.js` only when adding or removing pages
- The left sidebar (leftbar) is defined in `sidebar.js`

> - The right sidebar (page TOC) generates automatically from H2 and H3 headings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The right sidebar (page TOC) generates automatically from H2 (##) and H3 (###) headings
```

> - Expect merge conflicts in `sidebar.js`—accept other contributors' changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Expect merge conflicts in `sidebar.js`—review carefully and accept other contributors' changes
```

> 

Reviewer: Hiya @matthewshaver 

These are some other suggestions to possibly add to the list:

- Keep sidebar ordering consistent with the existing content hierarchy
- Restart the local server if sidebar changes don’t appear
- Verify sidebar in local and production builds before merging

Author: That first point is a good add. I think the second and third could be confusing - the local server check is a good idea, but it's also imperfect, and not everybody may have the proper tools installed to use it. The Vercel preview should be the final word on content structure. Do you agree with that?

> - Expect merge conflicts in `sidebar.js`—review carefully and accept other contributors' changes

Author: ```suggestion
- Expect merge conflicts in `sidebar.js`. Review carefully and accept other contributors' changes
```

---

## Markdown syntax

### Link syntax

| Element | Syntax |
|---------|--------|
| External link | `[Title](https://www.example.com)` |
| Internal link | `[Title](/docs/folder/file-name)` |

> | Section link (same page) | `[Title](#section-name)` |

Reviewer: Hiya Matt

Is it worth letting people know (new joiners especially) this is called an anchor link?

Author: Good call out!

> | Section link (same page) | `[Title](#section-name)` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Section link (same page) | `[Title](#section-name)` (anchor link)|
```

> | Section link (same page) | `[Title](#section-name)` |

Author: ```suggestion
| Anchor link (same page) | `[Title](#section-name)` |
```

> | Section link (other page) | `[Title](/docs/folder/file-name#section-name)` |

Reviewer: And for this - a relative link?

> | Section link (other page) | `[Title](/docs/folder/file-name#section-name)` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Section link (other page) | `[Title](/docs/folder/file-name#section-name)` (relative link)|
```

**Valid path prefixes:**
- `/docs/`
- `/guides/`
- `/reference/`
- `/community/`

> Do not include file extensions in internal links.

Reviewer: Hiya Matt

It might be worth adding an example of what to do / what not to do? Just so people know what this looks like.

### Image syntax

```markdown
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/image-name.jpg" title="Concise description"/>

> ```

Reviewer: Is it possible to add a short explanation for this section?

---

## Text formatting

### When to use each format

| Format | Use for | Example |
|--------|---------|---------|
| *Italics* | Emphasis | Do *not* leave belongings on the bus. |
| **Bold** | UI elements, titles, headers | Click **Submit**. |

> | `Code` | Code, paths, filenames, commands, parameters | Update `dbt_project.yml` |

Reviewer: Hiya @matthewshaver 

I mentioned this above but I was wondering if adapter names should be added to this list as I noticed some inconsistency to docs. As in should they be backticked or not?

Author: I see what you mean now. I think you should take this up with the team. If we're handling it inconsistently, it might be because we haven't gaveled on it. I don't believe they should be 
- dbt-snowflake ✅ 
- `dbt-snowflake` ❌  

but let's make sure the team is aligned

### Code formatting rules

Use code font for:
- Source code (SQL, YAML, JavaScript)
- Placeholder text
- Directory paths (`/opt/homebrew/bin/`)
- Directory names (the `etc` directory)
- Filenames (`dbt_project.yml`)
- Git branch names (`main`)
- Commands (`ghe-cluster-status`)

> - Arguments, parameters, keys

Reviewer: adapter names?

Author: See other comments [here](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8677/changes#r2928583595)

**Do not:**
- Combine multiple text decorations

> - Use inline links within command names

Reviewer: Are we able to add examples in parentheses for these of what to avoid and what is ok?

---

## UI elements

### Standard terminology

| Element | Verb | Example |
|---------|------|---------|
| Button | Click | Click **Submit**. |
| Checkbox | Select / Clear | Select the **New** option. |
| Dropdown | Select / Choose | In **Create**, select **From a template**. |
| Radio button | Select / Choose / Clear | Choose **Small size**. |
| Text field | Enter | In **Address**, enter your company's address. |

**Avoid:** "Click the button", "Check/Uncheck", "Hit", "Tap"

### Describing UI location

Use positional terms: upper, lower, center, left, right

✅ Use the search box in the upper left corner.  
✅ Access guides from the **Guides** menu at the top of the page.

### UI sections

Bold section names. Avoid "panel" and "pane."

✅ In the **Settings** section, choose the default address.  
❌ Review orders from the **History** pane.

---

## Capitalization

### Rules

1. Use sentence case for titles and headings

> 2. Capitalize product names (see [dbt features](#dbt-features))

Reviewer: It's probably just me being slow, but should the example be amended to an actual feature (or maybe a placeholder) ie dbt Mesh "dbt features" threw me off a tad

Author: This links them out to the full list, which may be a little more helpful than a single example

> 3. Capitalize acronyms and proper nouns

Reviewer: Would adding 1 or 2 examples make the sentence look noisy?

Reviewer: I'm resolving this as I personally feel this is pretty self explanatory

4. Do not capitalize common features

Placeholder text is something that the user should replace with their own text. For example, their website domain name.
---

Use all capital letters([screaming snake case](https://fission.codes/blog/screaming-snake-case/)) to indicate text that changes in the user interface or that the user needs to supply in a command or code snippet. Avoid surrounding it in brackets or braces, which someone might copy and use, producing an error.
## Titles and headings

Identify what the user should replace the placeholder text within the paragraph preceding the code snippet or command.
### Rules

:white_check_mark: The following is an example of configuring a connection to a Redshift database. In your YAML file, you must replace `CLUSTER_ID` with the ID assigned to you during setup:

```yaml
my-redshift-db:
  target: dev
  outputs:
    dev:
      type: redshift
      method: iam
      cluster_id: CLUSTER_ID

```
1. Use sentence case
2. Be descriptive and action-oriented
3. Keep concise
4. Match the content type (see [content types](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/current/contributing/content-types.md))

> ## Oxford comma

Reviewer: Is there a reason why this section won't be included anymore? I think it might be beneficial to keep it

Author: We mention the Oxford comma in a couple of other places, just not sure it needs a whole section to explain

> 4. Do not end items with commas, semicolons, or conjunctions

Reviewer: This is related I guess, but can another suggestion:

- Consistent punctuation (I noticed in the docs, some bullets are mdashed and some have colons before the explanations)

Author: Can you link some examples? I can alter based on how we're using them

Reviewer: Hiya Matt, some examples below:

https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/build/exposures - mdash example
https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/build/documentation - colon example

> > 2. Click **+ create new branch** and enter `add-customers-model`.

Reviewer: I've noticed in some of the numbered steps we use roman numerals for sub steps, should we add this to the style guide?

Author: That's formatted automatically. IT's not a choice they make, but happens when there's an indendation and then another number.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The content is step-by-step
- There are only one or two items
- It isn’t meant for side-by-side comparison
- A list or headings would be clearer
```

Reviewer: Possible additions

> ## Cards

Reviewer: Should there be an explanation like there was previously? Maybe a brief sentence as to when to use them

Author: Good call, we should have a little lead in, but it should be shorter

> **For 4-5 columns:** Set `hide_table_of_contents: true` in frontmatter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**For 4-5 columns:** Set `hide_table_of_contents: true` the frontmatter to hide the right table of contents and prevent crowding.
```

> ### Card props

Reviewer: Should we have a short sentence explaining what this is

Author: Added the lead in a little further up. This is more technical formatting

> Use SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE for values users must replace:

Reviewer: I think we had a link to screaming snake case, can that be added for more info?

> Explain placeholders in the preceding paragraph.

Reviewer 2: I think examples help here. 

```suggestion
Explain placeholders in the preceding paragraph. For example, you'd explain CLUSTER_ID:
> Replace CLUSTER_ID with the ID assigned to this cluster.
```

> | `https://docs.getdbt.com` | [dbt Labs docs](https://docs.getdbt.com) |

Reviewer 2: might want to use a different example as we should be using relative links for docs.getdbt.com and this might be confusing

Author: Good call!

> **Acceptable verbs:** visit, read, refer to, see

Reviewer: Possibly add some examples of terms to avoid?

Reviewer: Just an additional note, with the phrase / word "see", as we need to use accessible language (not everyone can see), should this be included?

> 4. Add icons to both `/img/icons/` and `/img/icons/white/`

Reviewer: Another suggestion, ensure file names are saved as .md?

Author: This section is specific to images so I think that might add confusion

> 3. Use generic names (John Doe, Jane Doe) in account fields

Reviewer: Other suggestions: 

4. Crop to the relevant UI area only
5. Use a consistent theme (light or dark)
6. Avoid showing internal IDs, tokens, or environment details (related to the first)
7. Add descriptive alt text
8. Update or remove screenshots when the UI changes

Author: 4. Good call
5. I think we should always use light theme, but I'm not sure we're consistent with that. Might be worth gavelling with the team
6. We can add to the first
7. This is covered in the implementation earlier on, not sure we need to include it here
8. This is more of a internal maintenance measure than anything I think we need to call out in the style guide, especially since it's public

### Voice and tense

| Rule | ✅ Use | ❌ Avoid |
|------|--------|----------|
| Active voice | Developers add files. | Files are added by developers. |
| Present tense | This command runs the job. | This command will run the job. |
| Second person | You can configure... | Users can configure... |

### Spelling

Use US English spelling:

| ❌ Avoid | ✅ Use |
|----------|--------|
| standardise | standardize |
| licence | license |
| colour | color |

### Abbreviations and acronyms

1. Spell out acronyms on first use (except in titles)
2. Do not use an acronym that appears only once
3. Format: Full phrase (ACRONYM)

**Example:** Integrated Development Environment (IDE)

### Latin abbreviations

Avoid Latin abbreviations. Use plain language:

| ❌ Avoid | ✅ Use |
|----------|--------|
| i.e. | that is |
| e.g. | for example, like |
| etc. | and more, and so forth |

> | N.B. | note |

Reviewer: Can "via" be added? As this appears in docs quite a bit

Author: As allowed or avoided? What would be the comparison text?

Reviewer: Apologies, I should have been clearer.
Can "via" be added as term to avoid and the comparison or preferred phrase would be through or using (depending on the sentence / context)

* Avoid URL and bookmark bars in the screenshot and limit the scope to the product and page being documented.
Callout content here.

##### Format
:::
```

* Add images under the `static` -> `img` folder.
* Use concise filenames that are relevant to the content contained within. Enumerate them if they are part of a sequence.
* Use JPEG or PNG format, which renders a better quality and lossless compression. JPEG format has a white background and is accessible in light and dark mode. 
* Add *title=""* for all images to write a concise title of the image. For accessibility, it's important to use succinct text that is clear and complete. 
### Rules

For more information about image-formatting, review the [Lightbox guidance](/contributing/lightbox), and the following examples:
1. Keep content minimal
2. Avoid general information, permissions, or prerequisites in callouts
3. One key point per callout

  :x: screenshot-august0822.jpg
---

  :white_check_mark: viewing-admins-01.jpg
## Contributing

## Talk to us

> Your feedback helps drive us forward. At dbt Labs, we want you to get involved if you see areas in the documentation that need improvement. That might include becoming a docs contributor or simply filing a GitHub issue so we know where to look. We have an incredible community of contributors, and our documents reflect that.

Reviewer: Can we keep this? It's really positive and encouraging

- [Markdown syntax](#markdown-syntax)
- [Text formatting](#text-formatting)
- [UI elements](#ui-elements)
- [Capitalization](#capitalization)
- [Titles and headings](#titles-and-headings)
- [Lists](#lists)
- [Tables](#tables)
- [Cards](#cards)
- [Code formatting](#code-formatting)
- [Links](#links)
- [Images](#images)
- [Word choice and terminology](#word-choice-and-terminology)
- [Callouts](#callouts)

---

## Naming conventions and branding

### dbt products

Always use these exact names (case-sensitive):

| Product | Usage | Notes |
|---------|-------|-------|
| dbt Labs | The company | Always lowercase "dbt", capital "L" |
| dbt | Generic reference | Use when content applies to all dbt offerings |
| dbt Core | Versions ≤1.x | Lowercase "dbt", capital "C" |
| dbt Fusion engine | Versions ≥2.x | Can shorten to "Fusion" in docs |
| dbt | Cloud-based offering | Formerly "dbt Cloud"; use "managed dbt" or "dbt platform" for clarity |

Plan tiers (capitalize): Developer, Starter, Enterprise, Enterprise+

### dbt features

**Capitalize these product names:**
- Studio IDE
- Canvas
- Insights
- Catalog
- dbt Mesh
- Orchestrator
- Semantic Layer

> - Copilot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Copilot
- dbt MCP server
- dbt Agents
```

Reviewer: Adding this suggestion following PR Mirna raised this morning

**Do not capitalize these features:**
- dbt platform
- models
- environments
- configs
- settings
- column-level lineage

### Third-party brands

We have many official and unofficial partners in the world of dbt and we must respect their branding. Use official branding. Update when vendors rebrand.

| ❌ Avoid | ✅ Use |
|----------|--------|
| Microsoft Azure Active Directory | Microsoft Entra ID |
| VScode | VS Code |
| Visual Studio Code | VS Code (acceptable shorthand) |

### Acronyms and initialisms

Use all caps unless another standard exists (such as in code blocks):

| ❌ Avoid | ✅ Use |
|----------|--------|
| yaml | YAML |
| sql | SQL |
| json | JSON |
| DBT | dbt |

**Exception:** File extensions use lowercase (`.sql`, `.yml`) or inside code blocks (```yaml)

## File and folder structure

### File naming rules

1. Use lowercase with hyphens (`kebab-case`)
2. Keep names short. They appear in the URL
3. Be descriptive but concise

> 4. Avoid redundant words

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Avoid redundant words:
| ❌ Redundant (avoid) | ✅  Prefer |
|----------------------|-----------|
| `users_model.sql`     | `users.sql` or `user_orders.sql` |
| `macros_utils.sql`     | `utils.sql` |
| `schema_schema.yml` | `schema.yml` |
```

| Anchor link (other page) | `[Title](/docs/folder/file-name#section-name)` |

**Valid path prefixes:**
- `/docs/`
- `/guides/`
- `/reference/`
- `/community/`

Do not include file extensions (like .md) in internal links.

### Image syntax

We use the Lightbox feature for image posting. Use the following syntax for posting images (width optional. Use it to resize large images):

```markdown
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/image-name.jpg" width=60% title="Concise description"/>
```

---

## Text formatting

### When to use each format

| Format | Use for | Example |
|--------|---------|---------|
| *Italics* | Emphasis | Do *not* leave belongings on the bus. |
| **Bold** | UI elements, titles, headers | Click **Submit**. |
| `Code` | Code, paths, filenames, commands, parameters | Update `dbt_project.yml` |

### Code formatting rules

Use code font for:
- Source code (SQL, YAML, JavaScript)
- Placeholder text
- Directory paths (`/opt/homebrew/bin/`)
- Directory names (the `etc` directory)
- Filenames (`dbt_project.yml`)
- Git branch names (`main`)
- Commands (`ghe-cluster-status`)
- Arguments, parameters, keys

**Do not:**
- Combine multiple text decorations

> - Use inline links within command names

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use inline links within command names (❌ Use [`dbt run`](/docs/commands/run) to build your models.
```

### Examples

**Bulleted list:**
> A dbt project must contain at minimum:
> - Models: Single `.sql` files containing `select` statements
> - A project file: `dbt_project.yml` that configures your project

**Numbered list:**
> ## Create a new branch
> 1. Navigate to the **Develop** interface.
> 2. Click **+ create new branch** and enter `add-customers-model`.

---

## Tables

### Table rules

1. Introduce with a heading or sentence/fragment followed by a colon
2. Use a header row
3. Use sentence case for all content
4. Keep content concise

### When to avoid tables

- Content becomes hard to read
- Cells require excessive text
- Mobile display suffers

**Alternative formats:** Definition lists, separate subsections, tabs, separate pages.

---

## Cards

Use the `<Card` component to display content and actions on a single topic. These are primarily used on landing pages that link out to multiple related subjects.

### Grid options

| Class | Columns | Use case |
|-------|---------|----------|
| `grid--2-col` | 2 | Default choice |
| `grid--3-col` | 3 | Common use |
| `grid--4-col` | 4 | Limited text only (≤15 words) |
| `grid--5-col` | 5 | Limited text only (≤15 words) |

> **For 4-5 columns:** Set `hide_table_of_contents: true` in frontmatter.

Author: ```suggestion
**For 4-5 columns:** Set `hide_table_of_contents: true` in the frontmatter to hide the right table of contents and prevent crowding.
```

| ❌ Avoid | ✅ Use |
|----------|--------|
| yaml | YAML |
| sql | SQL |
| json | JSON |
| DBT | dbt |

**Exception:** File extensions use lowercase (`.sql`, `.yml`) or inside code blocks (```yaml)

## File and folder structure

### File naming rules

1. Use lowercase with hyphens (`kebab-case`)
2. Keep names short. They appear in the URL
3. Be descriptive but concise
4. Avoid redundant words:
| ❌ Redundant (avoid) | ✅  Prefer |
|----------------------|-----------|
| `users_model.sql`     | `users.sql` or `user_orders.sql` |
| `macros_utils.sql`     | `utils.sql` |
| `schema_schema.yml` | `schema.yml` |

| ❌ Avoid | ✅ Use |
|----------|--------|
| `/docs/deploy/how-we-think-about-architecture` | `/docs/cloud/about-cloud/architecture` |
| `getting-started-with-dbt-setup.md` | `dbt-setup.md` |

### Sidebar configuration

- Edit `sidebar.js` only when adding or removing pages
- The left sidebar (leftbar) is defined in `sidebar.js`
- The right sidebar (page TOC) generates automatically from H2 (##) and H3 (###) headings
- Expect merge conflicts in `sidebar.js`. Review carefully and accept other contributors' changes

> - Ensure content is placed into proper directory (/docs, /guides, /reference, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure content is placed into proper directory (/docs, /guides, /reference, etc.)
- Keep sidebar ordering consistent with the existing content hierarchy
```

| Internal link | `[Title](/docs/folder/file-name)` |
| Anchor link (same page) | `[Title](#section-name)` |
| Anchor link (other page) | `[Title](/docs/folder/file-name#section-name)` |

**Valid path prefixes:**
- `/docs/`
- `/guides/`
- `/reference/`
- `/community/`

Do not include file extensions (like .md) in internal links.

### Image syntax

We use the Lightbox feature for image posting. Use the following syntax for posting images (width optional. Use it to resize large images):

```markdown
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/image-name.jpg" width=60% title="Concise description"/>
```

---

## Text formatting

### When to use each format

| Format | Use for | Example |
|--------|---------|---------|
| *Italics* | Emphasis | Do *not* leave belongings on the bus. |
| **Bold** | UI elements, titles, headers | Click **Submit**. |
| `Code` | Code, paths, filenames, commands, parameters | Update `dbt_project.yml` |

### Code formatting rules

Use code font for:
- Source code (SQL, YAML, JavaScript)
- Placeholder text
- Directory paths (`/opt/homebrew/bin/`)
- Directory names (the `etc` directory)
- Filenames (`dbt_project.yml`)
- Git branch names (`main`)
- Commands (`ghe-cluster-status`)

> - Arguments, parameters, keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Arguments, parameters, keys
- Adapter names (`dbt-snowflake`)
```

config-version: 2

vars:
  start_date: '2021-06-01'
```

❌ **Avoid** (missing context):
```yaml
config-version: 2

vars:
  start_date: '2021-06-01'
```

### Placeholder text

Use SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE for values users must replace:

```yaml
my-redshift-db:
  target: dev
  outputs:
    dev:
      type: redshift
      cluster_id: CLUSTER_ID
```

Explain placeholders in the preceding paragraph. For example, you'd explain CLUSTER_ID:
> Replace CLUSTER_ID with the ID assigned to this cluster.

---

## Links

### Internal links

1. Use relative paths from content root
2. Do not include file extensions
3. Do not use paths relative to the current document

**Valid prefixes:** `/docs/`, `/guides/`, `/reference/`, `/community/`

**Example:**
```markdown
[Regions & IP Addresses](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/access-regions-ip-addresses)
```

**Section links:**
```markdown
[incremental models](/docs/build/incremental-models#understand-incremental-models)
```

### Link text rules

| ❌ Avoid | ✅ Use |
|----------|--------|
| `https://some.site.com` | [Some site](https://some.site.com) |
| [Click here](url) | [dbt Labs docs](url) |
| Visit our website | Read the [setup guide](/docs/setup) |

> **Acceptable verbs:** visit, read, refer to, see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Acceptable verbs:** visit, read, refer to
```

**Numbered callout format:**
- Font: Helvetica, 30pt, Red, Bold

### Icon reference

Use [Google Material Icons](https://fonts.google.com/icons?selected=Material+Icons) for icon names.

✅ Click the menu icon  
❌ Click the hamburger menu icon

---

## Word choice and terminology

### Voice and tense

| Rule | ✅ Use | ❌ Avoid |
|------|--------|----------|
| Active voice | Developers add files. | Files are added by developers. |
| Present tense | This command runs the job. | This command will run the job. |
| Second person | You can configure... | Users can configure... |

### Spelling

Use US English spelling:

| ❌ Avoid | ✅ Use |
|----------|--------|
| standardise | standardize |
| licence | license |
| colour | color |

### Abbreviations and acronyms

1. Spell out acronyms on first use (except in titles)
2. Do not use an acronym that appears only once
3. Format: Full phrase (ACRONYM)

**Example:** Integrated Development Environment (IDE)

### Latin abbreviations

Avoid Latin abbreviations. Use plain language:

| ❌ Avoid | ✅ Use |
|----------|--------|
| i.e. | that is |
| e.g. | for example, like |
| etc. | and more, and so forth |

> | N.B. | note |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| N.B. | note |
| via  | using, through |
```

3. Be descriptive but concise
4. Avoid redundant words:
| ❌ Redundant (avoid) | ✅  Prefer |
|----------------------|-----------|
| `users_model.sql`     | `users.sql` or `user_orders.sql` |
| `macros_utils.sql`     | `utils.sql` |
| `schema_schema.yml` | `schema.yml` |

| ❌ Avoid | ✅ Use |
|----------|--------|
| `/docs/deploy/how-we-think-about-architecture` | `/docs/cloud/about-cloud/architecture` |
| `getting-started-with-dbt-setup.md` | `dbt-setup.md` |

### Sidebar configuration

- Edit `sidebar.js` only when adding or removing pages
- The left sidebar (leftbar) is defined in `sidebar.js`
- The right sidebar (page TOC) generates automatically from H2 (##) and H3 (###) headings
- Expect merge conflicts in `sidebar.js`. Review carefully and accept other contributors' changes
- Ensure content is placed into proper directory (/docs, /guides, /reference, etc.)
- Keep sidebar ordering consistent with the existing content hierarchy

---

## Markdown syntax

### Link syntax

| Element | Syntax |
|---------|--------|
| External link | `[Title](https://www.example.com)` |
| Internal link | `[Title](/docs/folder/file-name)` |
| Anchor link (same page) | `[Title](#section-name)` |

> | Anchor link (other page) | `[Title](/docs/folder/file-name#section-name)` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Relative link (other page) | `[Title](/docs/folder/file-name#section-name)` |
```

**Valid path prefixes:**
- `/docs/`
- `/guides/`
- `/reference/`
- `/community/`

Do not include file extensions (like .md) in internal links.

### Image syntax

We use the Lightbox feature for image posting. Use the following syntax for posting images (width optional. Use it to resize large images):

```markdown
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/image-name.jpg" width=60% title="Concise description"/>
```

---

## Text formatting

### When to use each format

| Format | Use for | Example |
|--------|---------|---------|
| *Italics* | Emphasis | Do *not* leave belongings on the bus. |
| **Bold** | UI elements, titles, headers | Click **Submit**. |
| `Code` | Code, paths, filenames, commands, parameters | Update `dbt_project.yml` |

### Code formatting rules

Use code font for:
- Source code (SQL, YAML, JavaScript)
- Placeholder text
- Directory paths (`/opt/homebrew/bin/`)
- Directory names (the `etc` directory)
- Filenames (`dbt_project.yml`)
- Git branch names (`main`)
- Commands (`ghe-cluster-status`)
- Arguments, parameters, keys

> - adapter names (`dbt-snowflake`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Adapter names (`dbt-snowflake`)
```

| ❌ Avoid | ✅ Use |
|----------|--------|
| `https://some.site.com` | [Some site](https://some.site.com) |
| [Click here](url) | [dbt Labs docs](url) |
| Visit our website | Read the [setup guide](/docs/setup) |

**Acceptable verbs:** visit, read, refer to

### Link destinations to avoid

- Sales or promotional material
- General landing pages
- Paywalled content
- Untrusted sites
- Personal sites or file shares
- Instant downloads

---

## Images

### Alt text

Every image must include descriptive alt text for screen readers.

### File requirements

1. Save images to `/website/static/img/`
2. Use `kebab-case` or `snake_case` filenames
3. Use JPEG or PNG format
4. Add icons to both `/img/icons/` and `/img/icons/white/`

### Screenshot guidelines

**When to use screenshots:**
- Highlighting navigation
- Showing on-screen elements
- Demonstrating product visuals

**When not to use screenshots:**
- Code inputs/outputs (use code blocks)
- Content that changes frequently

### Screenshot rules

- Redact all PII (names, emails, phone numbers) and sensitive info (like account numbers)
- Exclude URL and bookmark bars
- Use generic names (John Doe, Jane Doe) in account fields

> - Capture only the relevant area 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Capture only the relevant area 
- Crop to the relevant UI area only
```

```

**Section links:**
```markdown
[incremental models](/docs/build/incremental-models#understand-incremental-models)
```

### Link text rules

| ❌ Avoid | ✅ Use |
|----------|--------|
| `https://some.site.com` | [Some site](https://some.site.com) |
| [Click here](url) | [dbt Labs docs](url) |
| Visit our website | Read the [setup guide](/docs/setup) |

**Acceptable verbs:** visit, read, refer to

### Link destinations to avoid

- Sales or promotional material
- General landing pages
- Paywalled content
- Untrusted sites
- Personal sites or file shares
- Instant downloads

---

## Images

### Alt text

Every image must include descriptive alt text for screen readers.

### File requirements

1. Save images to `/website/static/img/`
2. Use `kebab-case` or `snake_case` filenames
3. Use JPEG or PNG format
4. Add icons to both `/img/icons/` and `/img/icons/white/`

### Screenshot guidelines

**When to use screenshots:**
- Highlighting navigation
- Showing on-screen elements
- Demonstrating product visuals

**When not to use screenshots:**
- Code inputs/outputs (use code blocks)
- Content that changes frequently

### Screenshot rules

> - Redact all PII (names, emails, phone numbers) and sensitive info (like account numbers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Redact all PII (names, emails, phone numbers) and sensitive info (like account numbers,  internal IDs, tokens, environment details)
```

> - Redact all PII (names, emails, phone numbers) and sensitive info (like account numbers,  internal IDs, tokens, environment details)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Redact all PII (names, emails, phone numbers) and sensitive info (like account numbers, internal IDs, tokens, environment details)
```

- Exclude URL and bookmark bars
- Use generic names (John Doe, Jane Doe) in account fields
- Capture only the relevant area 

> - Crop to the relevant UI area only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Crop to the relevant UI area only
- Use a consistent theme (default / light)
```
